doc/walk.md, before:

# The API of class ``Walk``

## ``Toc``

The ``Toc`` class is the return value of class method ``results`` and ``collect`` of class ``Walk``.

### ``Toc`` has following class members

- ``dirs`` list of directory names.
- ``files`` list of filenames.
- ``symlinks`` list of symlink names.
- ``other`` list of names of all other entry types.
- ``errors`` list of access errors (list of strings).

## ``Walk(root_path: str, sorted: bool = False, skip_hidden: bool = False, max_depth: int = 0, max_file_cnt: int = 0, dir_include: List[str] = None, dir_exclude: List[str] = None, file_include: List[str] = None, file_exclude: List[str] = None, case_sensitive: bool = True, return_type: ReturnType = ReturnType.Base)``

Creates a class instance for calculating statistics. The class instance initially does nothing. To start the scan either the method ``start``  or the method ``collect`` has to be called or a context has to be created (``with Walk(...) as instance:``). When the context is closed the background thread is stopped.

### Parameters

- ``root_path`` is directory to scan. ``~`` is allowed on Unix systems.
- ``sorted`` if ``True`` alphabetically sort results.
- ``skip_hidden`` if ``True`` then ignore all hidden files and directories.
- ``max_depth`` is maximum depth of iteration. If ``0`` then depth limit is disabled.
- ``dir_include`` list of patterns for directories to include.
- ``dir_exclude`` list of patterns for directories to exclude.
- ``file_include`` list of patterns for files to include.
- ``file_exclude`` list of patterns for files to exclude.
- ``case_sensitive`` if `True` then do case sensitive pattern matching.
- ``return_type`` defines type of data returned.

For valid file patterns see module [glob](https://docs.rs/glob/0.3.0/glob/struct.Pattern.html).

### Return types

- ``ReturnType.Base`` return ``dirs`` and ``files`` as ``os.walk`` does.
- ``ReturnType.Ext`` return additional data: ``symlinks``, ``other`` and ``errors``.

**Please note:**
> Due to limitations of jwalk the returned errors just contain the error message without any information to which files the errors correspond to.

### ``start()``

Start parsing the directory tree in background. Raises an expception if a task is already running.

### ``join()``

Wait for task to finish.

### ``stop()``

Stop task.

### ``collect() -> Toc``

Collect directories, files, etc. and return a ``Toc`` object when the task has finished. This method is blocking and releases the GIL.

### ``has_results(only_new: Optional[bool] = False) -> bool``

Returns ``True`` if new entries are available and ``only_new`` is ``False`` or in case ``only_new`` is ``False`` and any entries have been collected since task start.

### ``results_cnt(update: Optional[bool] = False) -> int``

Returns number of results collected so far. If ``update`` is ``True`` then new results are counted too.

### ``results(return_all: Optional[bool] = False) -> List[Tuple[str, Toc]]``

If ``return_all`` is ``True`` then return all results collected so far else return only new results. Each result consists of root directory and ``Toc``.

### ``has_errors() -> bool``

Returns ``True`` if errors occured while walking through the directory tree. The error messages can be found in ``Toc`` objects returned.

### ``duration() -> float``

Returns the duration of the task. As long as the task is running it will return 0.

### ``finished() -> bool``

Returns ``True`` after the task has finished.

### ``busy()``

Returns ``True`` while a task is running.

Commit message:

Unify API of different methods (API changes in some methods!)
Update documentation.

doc/walk.md, after:

# The API of class ``Walk``

## ``Toc``

The ``Toc`` class is the return value of class method ``results`` and ``collect`` of class ``Walk``.

### ``Toc`` has following class members

- ``dirs`` list of directory names.
- ``files`` list of filenames.
- ``symlinks`` list of symlink names.
- ``other`` list of names of all other entry types.
- ``errors`` list of access errors (list of strings).

## ``Walk(root_path: str, sorted: bool = False, skip_hidden: bool = False, max_depth: int = 0, max_file_cnt: int = 0, dir_include: List[str] = None, dir_exclude: List[str] = None, file_include: List[str] = None, file_exclude: List[str] = None, case_sensitive: bool = True, return_type: ReturnType = ReturnType.Base)``

Creates a class instance for calculating statistics. The class instance initially does nothing. To start the scan either the method ``start``  or the method ``collect`` has to be called or a context has to be created (``with Walk(...) as instance:``). When the context is closed the background thread is stopped.

### Parameters

- ``root_path`` is directory to scan. ``~`` is allowed on Unix systems.
- ``sorted`` if ``True`` alphabetically sort results.
- ``skip_hidden`` if ``True`` then ignore all hidden files and directories.
- ``max_depth`` is maximum depth of iteration. If ``0`` then depth limit is disabled.
- ``dir_include`` list of patterns for directories to include.
- ``dir_exclude`` list of patterns for directories to exclude.
- ``file_include`` list of patterns for files to include.
- ``file_exclude`` list of patterns for files to exclude.
- ``case_sensitive`` if `True` then do case sensitive pattern matching.
- ``return_type`` defines type of data returned.

For valid file patterns see module [glob](https://docs.rs/glob/0.3.0/glob/struct.Pattern.html).

### Return types

- ``ReturnType.Base`` return ``dirs`` and ``files`` as ``os.walk`` does.
- ``ReturnType.Ext`` return additional data: ``symlinks``, ``other`` and ``errors``.

**Please note:**
> Due to limitations of jwalk the returned errors just contain the error message without any information to which files the errors correspond to.

### ``clear()``

Clear all results.

### ``start()``

Start parsing the directory tree in background. Raises an exception if a task is already running.

### ``join()``

Wait for task to finish.

### ``stop()``

Stop task.

### ``collect(store: bool | None = True) -> Toc``

Collect directories, files, etc. and return a ``Toc`` object when the task has finished. This method is blocking and releases the GIL. Method ``start`` will be called if not already done.

If the optional parameter ``store`` is ``False`` then the results are not saved in the local data structure to save RAM.

### ``has_results(only_new: bool | None = True) -> bool``

Returns ``True`` if new entries are available and ``only_new`` is ``False`` or in case ``only_new`` is ``False`` and any entries have been collected since task start.

### ``results_cnt(only_new: bool | None = True) -> int``

Returns number of results collected so far. If ``update`` is ``True`` then new results are counted too.

### ``results(ronly_new: bool | None = True, store: bool | None = True) -> List[Tuple[str, Toc]]``

Returns entries and errors.

If ``only_new`` is ``True`` (default) then return all ``Toc`` collected so far else return only new ``Toc``.
If the optional parameter ``store`` is ``False`` (default is ``True``) then the results are not saved in the local data structure to save RAM.

### ``has_errors() -> bool``

Returns ``True`` if errors occured while walking through the directory tree. The error messages can be found in ``Toc`` objects returned.

### ``duration() -> float``

Returns the duration of the task. As long as the task is running it will return 0.

### ``finished() -> bool``

Returns ``True`` after the task has finished.

### ``busy()``

Returns ``True`` while a task is running.
